Welcome back.
Let's start to code our very first algorithm with breadth.
First search.
If you remember with breadth first search, we have to go from the top, then to the left, and then
visit all the nodes in that level.
And when I said that it uses a lot of memory, is that when it visits six and 12, from there it's going
to go back to one, four, then 34, then 45.
So as it goes through this level, we need to keep a reference to all the children nodes of every node
that we visit so that we can go back to them and visit one and four.
That's where the memory is coming from, because we have to keep track of those children of the level
that we're on.
And you'll also notice this path that we're taking from 9 to 6 to 12 to 1 to 4 to 30 4 to 45.
We're going to be using a Q data structure which allows us to keep a reference to the nodes that we
want to come back to because we know six is in front of 12.
We can go back to it and discover it's child nodes.
So let's get coding with our breath first search algorithm.
We have over here our binary search tree from our tree data structure section.
You've already implemented the insert lookup, remove methods, and we've created this binary search
tree that gives us this type of tree.
Let's remove these for now and start coding our own breadth for search implementation.
And ideally, by calling this function, we get a list of all these items in the order of breadth first
search.
That is nine 421 615 170.
Let's call this.
Breath.
First search.
And within here, we need three things.
One is the current node, which will start with the root node.
And we need two other things.
One is the actual list.
That will be our answer.
We'll have an array here where we insert these numbers into in the order of breadth for search.
And we also need a Q data structure, which we'll use an array for this example.
To keep track of the level we're at so that we can access the children.
Once we go through it.
Remember, we're going to keep track of nine, then we're going to keep track of six and 12.
And when we get to six and 12, and that's going to be in our queue.
But we have to go back once we're at the end of that level to six so that we can discover one and four.
So that's what the Q will be used for.
Now the very first thing we're going to do is to add to the queue the very first item, the root node.
So we're going to say queue dot, push, current node.
Now what we need to do here is go from the current node down to our children node and again go from
left to right and then go to their children node and go from left to right.
And the way we're going to do that is to use a while loop.
And we'll say that as long as queue length is going to be greater than zero, that is, we have nothing
left in the queue.
In that case we'll say that the current node.
We'll be cue dot shift.
And shift simply means that we take the very first item in the queue.
Remember, a queue is just a line up to the rollercoaster and the first person that comes in gets to
go first on the roller coaster and shift.
Simply returns and removes the first item in the queue.
In our case, we'll have nine as the first item in the queue, the nine node, and we're going to shift
that and assign it to the current node.
And because this is the root node, we want to start off in our answer that the list will have the number
nine at the top.
Let's move this up here just so you can see better.
So the first thing we're going to do is say list dot, push the current.
Node dot.
Value, which will be not.
So we have the first answer in our list, which is nine.
From there, we're going to say, hey, does the nine node?
Have a left child.
Because if it does, let's add it to the queue saying that you need to check out that node and we'll
push it to the queue.
Current node dot left.
So what we just did here is we've added four to the Q.
And then we also want to add 20 to the.
Q So I'm going to say if after you've added four to the Q, I'm going to say, hey, does a current
node have a right node, child node?
In that case, we'll add it to the queue again as the second item in the queue and the current dot right
will be pushed to the queue.
And this is the amazing thing of what we just did.
Now that the Q has two items as it passes through, it will have four and 20.
It's going to loop through, come to this line and say queue shift is going to grab four and say push
four to the current to the list.
And then it's going to say, hey, does four have a left child?
Yes, it does.
It has one.
Well, then add it to the queue so one gets added to the queue that has for 20 and now one.
And then we say, hey, does four have a right child?
Yes, we have six.
Well, we're going to add that to the queue again.
So we're going to have for 21 six and then we go back to the top and say what's next in line?
Well, we have 20, so let's shift 20, grab that, remove that from our queue and go through it again.
Again, left child would be 15 and right child will be 170.
If we consult our log here are current node dot value.
And actually, let's just log it.
Down here.
Which will be the shifted node.
That is the node that we're going to be operating on and checking and we'll have to actually call that.
So let's do tree dot.
Breath for a search and I click run.
We see that I'm checking nine, then I'm checking four, then I'm checking 20, then I'm checking one,
then six, then 15, then one, 17.
Very, very cool.
And we're pushing that to the list every time.
So all we need to do at the end is just say return list.
So that if I run this.
Look at that.
I have my breath.
First search that returns nine, then four, then 20, then one, 615 and 170.
That wasn't too bad, was it?
We see from this code here that it's quite simple and the only issue that we have is that this queue
can get pretty large because we have to keep reference to our child nodes.
The memory consumption that can really hurt us is this queue that we keep adding to, we keep popping
things, but we also add to the queue so that if we have a really wide tree instead of a binary tree
where we just have a left and a right and maybe we have ten child nodes, this queue can get pretty
big and depending on the data, that memory consumption might be big.
And that's one of the main downsides with breadth for search.
But hopefully you see the simplicity of breadth for search wasn't too bad, was it?
All right.
I'll see you in the next video.
Bye bye.